en/backup-to-gcs.md, before:

---
title: Back up Data to GCS Using Dumpling
summary: Learn how to back up the TiDB cluster to GCS (Google Cloud Storage) using Dumpling.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/backup-to-gcs/']
---

# Back up Data to GCS Using Dumpling

This document describes how to back up the data of the TiDB cluster in Kubernetes to [Google Cloud Storage (GCS)](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/). "Backup" in this document refers to full backup (ad-hoc full backup and scheduled full backup). [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/export-or-backup-using-dumpling) is used to get the logic backup of the TiDB cluster, and then this backup data is sent to the remote GCS.

The backup method described in this document is implemented using CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) in TiDB Operator v1.1 or later versions. For the backup method implemented using Helm Charts, refer to [Back up and Restore TiDB Cluster Data Using Helm Charts](backup-and-restore-using-helm-charts.md).

## Ad-hoc full backup to GCS

Ad-hoc full backup describes a backup operation by creating a `Backup` custom resource (CR) object. TiDB Operator performs the specific backup operation based on this `Backup` object. If an error occurs during the backup process, TiDB Operator does not retry and you need to handle this error manually.

To better explain how to perform the backup operation, this document shows an example in which the data of the `demo1` TiDB cluster is backed up to the `test1` Kubernetes namespace.

### Prerequisites for ad-hoc backup

1. Download [backup-rbac.yaml](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/backup/backup-rbac.yaml) and execute the following command to create the role-based access control (RBAC) resources in the `test1` namespace:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-rbac.yaml -n test1
    ```

2. Create the `gcs-secret` secret which stores the credential used to access GCS. The `google-credentials.json` file stores the service account key that you have downloaded from the GCP console. Refer to [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started) for details.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic gcs-secret --from-file=credentials=./google-credentials.json -n test1
    ```

3. Create the `backup-demo1-tidb-secret` secret which stores the root account and password needed to access the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic backup-demo1-tidb-secret --from-literal=password=${password} --namespace=test1
    ```

### Ad-hoc backup process

1. In the `backup-gcs.yaml` file, edit `host`, `port`, `user`, `projectId` and save your changes.

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: Backup
    metadata:
    name: demo1-backup-gcs
    namespace: test1
    spec:
    from:
        host: ${tidb_host}
        port: ${tidb_port}
        user: ${tidb_user}
        secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
    gcs:
        secretName: gcs-secret
        projectId: ${project_id}
        bucket: ${bucket}
        # prefix: ${prefix}
        # location: us-east1
        # storageClass: STANDARD_IA
        # objectAcl: private
        # bucketAcl: private
    # dumpling:
    #  options:
    #  - --threads=16
    #  - --rows=10000
    #  tableFilter:
    #  - "test.*"
    storageClassName: local-storage
    storageSize: 10Gi
    ```

2. Create the `Backup` CR and back up data to GCS:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-gcs.yaml
    ```

In the above example, all data of the TiDB cluster is exported and backed up to GCS. You can ignore the `location`, `objectAcl`, `bucketAcl`, and `storageClass` items in the GCS configuration.

`projectId` in the configuration is the unique identifier of the user project on GCP. To learn how to get this identifier, refer to the [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects).

<details>
<summary>Configure <code>storageClass</code></summary>

GCS supports the following `storageClass` types:

* `MULTI_REGIONAL`
* `REGIONAL`
* `NEARLINE`
* `COLDLINE`
* `DURABLE_REDUCED_AVAILABILITY`

If `storageClass` is not configured, `COLDLINE` is used by default. For the detailed description of these storage types, refer to [GCS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/storage-classes).

</details>

<details>
<summary>Configure the access-control list (ACL) policy</summary>

GCS supports the following object ACL polices:

* `authenticatedRead`
* `bucketOwnerFullControl`
* `bucketOwnerRead`
* `private`
* `projectPrivate`
* `publicRead`

If the object ACL policy is not configured, the `private` policy is used by default. For the detailed description of these access control policies, refer to [GCS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control/lists).

GCS supports the following bucket ACL policies:

* `authenticatedRead`
* `private`
* `projectPrivate`
* `publicRead`
* `publicReadWrite`

If the bucket ACL policy is not configured, the `private` policy is used by default. For the detailed description of these access control policies, refer to [GCS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control/lists).

</details>

After creating the `Backup` CR, you can use the following command to check the backup status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get bk -n test1 -owide
```

<details>
<summary>More parameter description</summary>

* `.spec.metadata.namespace`: the namespace where the `Backup` CR is located.
* `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`: the temporary `tikv_gc_lifetime` time setting during the backup. Defaults to 72h.

    Before the backup begins, if the `tikv_gc_lifetime` setting in the TiDB cluster is smaller than `spec.tikvGCLifeTime` set by the user, TiDB Operator adjusts the value of `tikv_gc_lifetime` to the value of `spec.tikvGCLifeTime`. This operation makes sure that the backup data is not garbage-collected by TiKV.

    After the backup, no matter whether the backup is successful or not, as long as the previous `tikv_gc_lifetime` is smaller than `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`, TiDB Operator will try to set `tikv_gc_lifetime` to the previous value.

    In extreme cases, if TiDB Operator fails to access the database, TiDB Operator cannot automatically recover the value of `tikv_gc_lifetime` and treats the backup as failed. At this time, you can view `tikv_gc_lifetime` of the current TiDB cluster using the following statement:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select VARIABLE_NAME, VARIABLE_VALUE from mysql.tidb where VARIABLE_NAME like "tikv_gc_life_time";
    ```

    In the output of the command above, if the value of `tikv_gc_lifetime` is still larger than expected (10m by default), it means TiDB Operator failed to automatically recover the value. Therefore, you need to set `tikv_gc_lifetime` back to the previous value manually:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    update mysql.tidb set VARIABLE_VALUE = '10m' where VARIABLE_NAME = 'tikv_gc_life_time';

* `.spec.cleanPolicy`: The clean policy of the backup data when the backup CR is deleted.

    Three clean policies are supported:

    * `Retain`: On any circumstances, retain the backup data when deleting the backup CR.
    * `Delete`: On any circumstances, delete the backup data when deleting the backup CR.
    * `OnFailure`: If the backup fails, delete the backup data when deleting the backup CR.

    If this field is not configured, or if you configure a value other than the three policies above, the backup data is retained.

    Note that in v1.1.2 and earlier versions, this field does not exist. The backup data is deleted along with the CR by default. For v1.1.3 or later versions, if you want to keep this behavior, set this field to `Delete`.

* `.spec.from.host`: the address of the TiDB cluster to be backed up, which is the service name of the TiDB cluster to be exported, such as `basic-tidb`.
* `.spec.from.port`: the port of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
* `.spec.from.user`: the accessing user of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
* `.spec.from.tidbSecretName`: the secret of the credential needed by the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
* `.spec.gcs.bucket`: the name of the bucket that stores data.
* `.spec.gcs.prefix`: this field can be ignored. If you set this field, it will be used to make up the remote storage path `gcs://${.spec.gcs.bucket}/${.spec.gcs.prefix}/backupName`.
* `.spec.dumpling`: Dumpling-related configurations, with two major fields. One is the `options` field, which specifies some parameters needed by Dumpling, and the other is the `tableFilter` field, which allows Dumpling to back up a table that matches the [table filter rule](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/table-filter/). These configuration items of Dumpling can be ignored by default. When not specified, the values of `options` and `tableFilter` (by default) are as follows:

    ```
    options:
    - --threads=16
    - --rows=10000
    tableFilter:
    - "*.*"
    - "!/^(mysql|test|INFORMATION_SCHEMA|PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA|METRICS_SCHEMA|INSPECTION_SCHEMA)$/.*"
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > To use the table filter to exclude `db.table`, you need to add the `*.*` rule to include all tables first. For example:

    ```
    tableFilter:
    - "*.*"
    - "!db.table"
    ```

* `.spec.storageClassName`: the persistent volume (PV) type specified for the backup operation. If this item is not specified, the value of the `default-backup-storage-class-name` parameter is used by default. This parameter is specified when TiDB Operator is started, and is set to `standard` by default.
* `.spec.storageSize`: the PV size specified for the backup operation (`100 Gi` by default). This value must be greater than the data size of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.

    The PVC name corresponding to the `Backup` CR of a TiDB cluster is fixed. If the PVC already exists in the cluster namespace and the size is smaller than `spec.storageSize`, you need to delete this PVC and then run the Backup job.

</details>

## Scheduled full backup to GCS

You can set a backup policy to perform scheduled backups of the TiDB cluster, and set a backup retention policy to avoid excessive backup items. A scheduled full backup is described by a custom `BackupSchedule` CR object. A full backup is triggered at each backup time point. Its underlying implementation is the ad-hoc full backup.

### Prerequisites for scheduled backup

The prerequisites for the scheduled backup is the same as the [prerequisites for ad-hoc backup](#prerequisites-for-ad-hoc-backup).

### Scheduled backup process

1. In the following `backup-schedule-gcs.yaml` file, edit `host`, `port`, `user`, `projectId` and save your changes.

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: BackupSchedule
    metadata:
      name: demo1-backup-schedule-gcs
      namespace: test1
    spec:
      #maxBackups: 5
      #pause: true
      maxReservedTime: "3h"
      schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
      backupTemplate:
        from:
          host: ${tidb_host}
          port: ${tidb_port}
          user: ${tidb_user}
          secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
        gcs:
          secretName: gcs-secret
          projectId: ${project_id}
          bucket: ${bucket}
          # prefix: ${prefix}
          # location: us-east1
          # storageClass: STANDARD_IA
          # objectAcl: private
          # bucketAcl: private
      # dumpling:
      #  options:
      #  - --threads=16
      #  - --rows=10000
      #  tableFilter:
      #  - "test.*"
        storageClassName: local-storage
        storageSize: 10Gi
    ```

2. Create the `BackupSchedule` CR to enable the scheduled full backup to GCS:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-schedule-gcs.yaml
    ```

After creating the scheduled full backup, you can use the following command to check the backup status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get bks -n test1 -owide
```

You can use the following command to check all the backup items:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get bk -l tidb.pingcap.com/backup-schedule=demo1-backup-schedule-gcs -n test1
```

From the above example, you can see that the `backupSchedule` configuration consists of two parts. One is the unique configuration of `backupSchedule`, and the other is `backupTemplate`. `backupTemplate` specifies the configuration related to the GCS storage, which is the same as the configuration of the ad-hoc full backup to GCS (refer to [GCS backup process](#ad-hoc-backup-process) for details). The following are the unique configuration items of `backupSchedule`:

+ `.spec.maxBackups`: A backup retention policy, which determines the maximum number of backup items to be retained. When this value is exceeded, the outdated backup items will be deleted. If you set this configuration item to `0`, all backup items are retained.
+ `.spec.maxReservedTime`: A backup retention policy based on time. For example, if you set the value of this configuration to `24h`, only backup items within the recent 24 hours are retained. All backup items out of this time are deleted. For the time format, refer to [`func ParseDuration`](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration). If you have set the maximum number of backup items and the longest retention time of backup items at the same time, the latter setting takes effect.
+ `.spec.schedule`: The time scheduling format of Cron. Refer to [Cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) for details.
+ `.spec.pause`: `false` by default. If this parameter is set to `true`, the scheduled scheduling is paused. In this situation, the backup operation will not be performed even if the scheduling time is reached. During this pause, the backup [Garbage Collection](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/reference/garbage-collection/overview) (GC) runs normally. If you change `true` to `false`, the full backup process is restarted.

> **Note:**
>
> TiDB Operator creates a PVC. This PVC is used for both ad-hoc full backup and scheduled full backup. The backup data is stored in PV first and then uploaded to remote storage. If you want to delete this PVC after the backup is completed, you can refer to [Delete Resource](cheat-sheet.md#delete-resources) to delete the backup Pod first, and then delete the PVC.
>
> If the backup data is successfully uploaded to remote storage, TiDB Operator automatically deletes the local data. If the upload fails, the local data is retained.

## Delete the backup CR

You can delete the full backup CR (`Backup`) and the scheduled backup CR (`BackupSchedule`) by the following commands:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl delete backup ${name} -n ${namespace}
kubectl delete backupschedule ${name} -n ${namespace}
```

If you use TiDB Operator v1.1.2 or earlier versions, or if you use TiDB Operator v1.1.3 or later versions and set the value of `spec.cleanPolicy` to `Delete`, TiDB Operator deletes the backup data when it deletes the CR. In such cases, if you need to delete the namespace as well, it is recommended that you first delete all the `Backup`/`BackupSchedule` CR and then delete the namespace.

If you delete the namespace before you delete the `Backup`/`BackupSchedule` CR, TiDB Operator continues to create jobs to clean the backup data. However, since the namespace is in `Terminating` state, TiDB Operator fails to create a job, which causes the namespace to be stuck in the state.

For v1.1.2 and earlier versions, if the backup data is manually deleted before you delete the `Backup`/`BackupSchedule` CR, the namespace might also be stuck in the `Terminating` state.

To address this issue, delete `finalizers` using the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl edit backup ${name} -n ${namespace}
```

After deleting the `metadata.finalizers` configuration, you can delete CR normally.

Commit message:

en: add debug section for backup & restore (#659)
Signed-off-by: Ran <huangran@pingcap.com>

en/backup-to-gcs.md, after:

---
title: Back up Data to GCS Using Dumpling
summary: Learn how to back up the TiDB cluster to GCS (Google Cloud Storage) using Dumpling.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/backup-to-gcs/']
---

# Back up Data to GCS Using Dumpling

This document describes how to back up the data of the TiDB cluster in Kubernetes to [Google Cloud Storage (GCS)](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/). "Backup" in this document refers to full backup (ad-hoc full backup and scheduled full backup). [Dumpling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/export-or-backup-using-dumpling) is used to get the logic backup of the TiDB cluster, and then this backup data is sent to the remote GCS.

The backup method described in this document is implemented using CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) in TiDB Operator v1.1 or later versions. For the backup method implemented using Helm Charts, refer to [Back up and Restore TiDB Cluster Data Using Helm Charts](backup-and-restore-using-helm-charts.md).

## Ad-hoc full backup to GCS

Ad-hoc full backup describes a backup operation by creating a `Backup` custom resource (CR) object. TiDB Operator performs the specific backup operation based on this `Backup` object. If an error occurs during the backup process, TiDB Operator does not retry and you need to handle this error manually.

To better explain how to perform the backup operation, this document shows an example in which the data of the `demo1` TiDB cluster is backed up to the `test1` Kubernetes namespace.

### Prerequisites for ad-hoc backup

1. Download [backup-rbac.yaml](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/backup/backup-rbac.yaml) and execute the following command to create the role-based access control (RBAC) resources in the `test1` namespace:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-rbac.yaml -n test1
    ```

2. Create the `gcs-secret` secret which stores the credential used to access GCS. The `google-credentials.json` file stores the service account key that you have downloaded from the GCP console. Refer to [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started) for details.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic gcs-secret --from-file=credentials=./google-credentials.json -n test1
    ```

3. Create the `backup-demo1-tidb-secret` secret which stores the root account and password needed to access the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl create secret generic backup-demo1-tidb-secret --from-literal=password=${password} --namespace=test1
    ```

### Ad-hoc backup process

1. In the `backup-gcs.yaml` file, edit `host`, `port`, `user`, `projectId` and save your changes.

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: Backup
    metadata:
    name: demo1-backup-gcs
    namespace: test1
    spec:
    from:
        host: ${tidb_host}
        port: ${tidb_port}
        user: ${tidb_user}
        secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
    gcs:
        secretName: gcs-secret
        projectId: ${project_id}
        bucket: ${bucket}
        # prefix: ${prefix}
        # location: us-east1
        # storageClass: STANDARD_IA
        # objectAcl: private
        # bucketAcl: private
    # dumpling:
    #  options:
    #  - --threads=16
    #  - --rows=10000
    #  tableFilter:
    #  - "test.*"
    storageClassName: local-storage
    storageSize: 10Gi
    ```

2. Create the `Backup` CR and back up data to GCS:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-gcs.yaml
    ```

In the above example, all data of the TiDB cluster is exported and backed up to GCS. You can ignore the `location`, `objectAcl`, `bucketAcl`, and `storageClass` items in the GCS configuration.

`projectId` in the configuration is the unique identifier of the user project on GCP. To learn how to get this identifier, refer to the [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects).

<details>
<summary>Configure <code>storageClass</code></summary>

GCS supports the following `storageClass` types:

* `MULTI_REGIONAL`
* `REGIONAL`
* `NEARLINE`
* `COLDLINE`
* `DURABLE_REDUCED_AVAILABILITY`

If `storageClass` is not configured, `COLDLINE` is used by default. For the detailed description of these storage types, refer to [GCS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/storage-classes).

</details>

<details>
<summary>Configure the access-control list (ACL) policy</summary>

GCS supports the following object ACL polices:

* `authenticatedRead`
* `bucketOwnerFullControl`
* `bucketOwnerRead`
* `private`
* `projectPrivate`
* `publicRead`

If the object ACL policy is not configured, the `private` policy is used by default. For the detailed description of these access control policies, refer to [GCS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control/lists).

GCS supports the following bucket ACL policies:

* `authenticatedRead`
* `private`
* `projectPrivate`
* `publicRead`
* `publicReadWrite`

If the bucket ACL policy is not configured, the `private` policy is used by default. For the detailed description of these access control policies, refer to [GCS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control/lists).

</details>

After creating the `Backup` CR, you can use the following command to check the backup status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get bk -n test1 -owide
```

<details>
<summary>More parameter description</summary>

* `.spec.metadata.namespace`: the namespace where the `Backup` CR is located.
* `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`: the temporary `tikv_gc_lifetime` time setting during the backup. Defaults to 72h.

    Before the backup begins, if the `tikv_gc_lifetime` setting in the TiDB cluster is smaller than `spec.tikvGCLifeTime` set by the user, TiDB Operator adjusts the value of `tikv_gc_lifetime` to the value of `spec.tikvGCLifeTime`. This operation makes sure that the backup data is not garbage-collected by TiKV.

    After the backup, no matter whether the backup is successful or not, as long as the previous `tikv_gc_lifetime` is smaller than `.spec.tikvGCLifeTime`, TiDB Operator will try to set `tikv_gc_lifetime` to the previous value.

    In extreme cases, if TiDB Operator fails to access the database, TiDB Operator cannot automatically recover the value of `tikv_gc_lifetime` and treats the backup as failed. At this time, you can view `tikv_gc_lifetime` of the current TiDB cluster using the following statement:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    select VARIABLE_NAME, VARIABLE_VALUE from mysql.tidb where VARIABLE_NAME like "tikv_gc_life_time";
    ```

    In the output of the command above, if the value of `tikv_gc_lifetime` is still larger than expected (10m by default), it means TiDB Operator failed to automatically recover the value. Therefore, you need to set `tikv_gc_lifetime` back to the previous value manually:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    update mysql.tidb set VARIABLE_VALUE = '10m' where VARIABLE_NAME = 'tikv_gc_life_time';

* `.spec.cleanPolicy`: The clean policy of the backup data when the backup CR is deleted.

    Three clean policies are supported:

    * `Retain`: On any circumstances, retain the backup data when deleting the backup CR.
    * `Delete`: On any circumstances, delete the backup data when deleting the backup CR.
    * `OnFailure`: If the backup fails, delete the backup data when deleting the backup CR.

    If this field is not configured, or if you configure a value other than the three policies above, the backup data is retained.

    Note that in v1.1.2 and earlier versions, this field does not exist. The backup data is deleted along with the CR by default. For v1.1.3 or later versions, if you want to keep this behavior, set this field to `Delete`.

* `.spec.from.host`: the address of the TiDB cluster to be backed up, which is the service name of the TiDB cluster to be exported, such as `basic-tidb`.
* `.spec.from.port`: the port of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
* `.spec.from.user`: the accessing user of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
* `.spec.from.tidbSecretName`: the secret of the credential needed by the TiDB cluster to be backed up.
* `.spec.gcs.bucket`: the name of the bucket that stores data.
* `.spec.gcs.prefix`: this field can be ignored. If you set this field, it will be used to make up the remote storage path `gcs://${.spec.gcs.bucket}/${.spec.gcs.prefix}/backupName`.
* `.spec.dumpling`: Dumpling-related configurations, with two major fields. One is the `options` field, which specifies some parameters needed by Dumpling, and the other is the `tableFilter` field, which allows Dumpling to back up a table that matches the [table filter rule](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/table-filter/). These configuration items of Dumpling can be ignored by default. When not specified, the values of `options` and `tableFilter` (by default) are as follows:

    ```
    options:
    - --threads=16
    - --rows=10000
    tableFilter:
    - "*.*"
    - "!/^(mysql|test|INFORMATION_SCHEMA|PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA|METRICS_SCHEMA|INSPECTION_SCHEMA)$/.*"
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > To use the table filter to exclude `db.table`, you need to add the `*.*` rule to include all tables first. For example:

    ```
    tableFilter:
    - "*.*"
    - "!db.table"
    ```

* `.spec.storageClassName`: the persistent volume (PV) type specified for the backup operation. If this item is not specified, the value of the `default-backup-storage-class-name` parameter is used by default. This parameter is specified when TiDB Operator is started, and is set to `standard` by default.
* `.spec.storageSize`: the PV size specified for the backup operation (`100 Gi` by default). This value must be greater than the data size of the TiDB cluster to be backed up.

    The PVC name corresponding to the `Backup` CR of a TiDB cluster is fixed. If the PVC already exists in the cluster namespace and the size is smaller than `spec.storageSize`, you need to delete this PVC and then run the Backup job.

</details>

## Scheduled full backup to GCS

You can set a backup policy to perform scheduled backups of the TiDB cluster, and set a backup retention policy to avoid excessive backup items. A scheduled full backup is described by a custom `BackupSchedule` CR object. A full backup is triggered at each backup time point. Its underlying implementation is the ad-hoc full backup.

### Prerequisites for scheduled backup

The prerequisites for the scheduled backup is the same as the [prerequisites for ad-hoc backup](#prerequisites-for-ad-hoc-backup).

### Scheduled backup process

1. In the following `backup-schedule-gcs.yaml` file, edit `host`, `port`, `user`, `projectId` and save your changes.

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    ---
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: BackupSchedule
    metadata:
      name: demo1-backup-schedule-gcs
      namespace: test1
    spec:
      #maxBackups: 5
      #pause: true
      maxReservedTime: "3h"
      schedule: "*/2 * * * *"
      backupTemplate:
        from:
          host: ${tidb_host}
          port: ${tidb_port}
          user: ${tidb_user}
          secretName: backup-demo1-tidb-secret
        gcs:
          secretName: gcs-secret
          projectId: ${project_id}
          bucket: ${bucket}
          # prefix: ${prefix}
          # location: us-east1
          # storageClass: STANDARD_IA
          # objectAcl: private
          # bucketAcl: private
      # dumpling:
      #  options:
      #  - --threads=16
      #  - --rows=10000
      #  tableFilter:
      #  - "test.*"
        # storageClassName: local-storage
        storageSize: 10Gi
    ```

2. Create the `BackupSchedule` CR to enable the scheduled full backup to GCS:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-schedule-gcs.yaml
    ```

After creating the scheduled full backup, you can use the following command to check the backup status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get bks -n test1 -owide
```

You can use the following command to check all the backup items:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get bk -l tidb.pingcap.com/backup-schedule=demo1-backup-schedule-gcs -n test1
```

From the above example, you can see that the `backupSchedule` configuration consists of two parts. One is the unique configuration of `backupSchedule`, and the other is `backupTemplate`. `backupTemplate` specifies the configuration related to the GCS storage, which is the same as the configuration of the ad-hoc full backup to GCS (refer to [GCS backup process](#ad-hoc-backup-process) for details). The following are the unique configuration items of `backupSchedule`:

+ `.spec.maxBackups`: A backup retention policy, which determines the maximum number of backup items to be retained. When this value is exceeded, the outdated backup items will be deleted. If you set this configuration item to `0`, all backup items are retained.
+ `.spec.maxReservedTime`: A backup retention policy based on time. For example, if you set the value of this configuration to `24h`, only backup items within the recent 24 hours are retained. All backup items out of this time are deleted. For the time format, refer to [`func ParseDuration`](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration). If you have set the maximum number of backup items and the longest retention time of backup items at the same time, the latter setting takes effect.
+ `.spec.schedule`: The time scheduling format of Cron. Refer to [Cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) for details.
+ `.spec.pause`: `false` by default. If this parameter is set to `true`, the scheduled scheduling is paused. In this situation, the backup operation will not be performed even if the scheduling time is reached. During this pause, the backup [Garbage Collection](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/reference/garbage-collection/overview) (GC) runs normally. If you change `true` to `false`, the full backup process is restarted.

> **Note:**
>
> TiDB Operator creates a PVC. This PVC is used for both ad-hoc full backup and scheduled full backup. The backup data is stored in PV first and then uploaded to remote storage. If you want to delete this PVC after the backup is completed, you can refer to [Delete Resource](cheat-sheet.md#delete-resources) to delete the backup Pod first, and then delete the PVC.
>
> If the backup data is successfully uploaded to remote storage, TiDB Operator automatically deletes the local data. If the upload fails, the local data is retained.

## Delete the backup CR

You can delete the full backup CR (`Backup`) and the scheduled backup CR (`BackupSchedule`) by the following commands:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl delete backup ${name} -n ${namespace}
kubectl delete backupschedule ${name} -n ${namespace}
```

If you use TiDB Operator v1.1.2 or earlier versions, or if you use TiDB Operator v1.1.3 or later versions and set the value of `spec.cleanPolicy` to `Delete`, TiDB Operator deletes the backup data when it deletes the CR. In such cases, if you need to delete the namespace as well, it is recommended that you first delete all the `Backup`/`BackupSchedule` CR and then delete the namespace.

If you delete the namespace before you delete the `Backup`/`BackupSchedule` CR, TiDB Operator continues to create jobs to clean the backup data. However, since the namespace is in `Terminating` state, TiDB Operator fails to create a job, which causes the namespace to be stuck in the state.

For v1.1.2 and earlier versions, if the backup data is manually deleted before you delete the `Backup`/`BackupSchedule` CR, the namespace might also be stuck in the `Terminating` state.

To address this issue, delete `finalizers` using the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl edit backup ${name} -n ${namespace}
```

After deleting the `metadata.finalizers` configuration, you can delete CR normally.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any problem during the backup process, refer to [Common Deployment Failures](deploy-failures.md).
