en/deploy-tiflash.md, before:

---
title: Deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/deploy-tiflash/']
---

# Deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes

This document describes how to deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes.

## Prerequisites

* [Deploy TiDB Operator](deploy-tidb-operator.md).

## Fresh TiFlash deployment

To deploy TiFlash when deploying the TiDB cluster, refer to [Deploy TiDB on General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md).

## Add TiFlash component to an existing TiDB cluster

Edit TidbCluster Custom Resource:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

``` shell
kubectl eidt tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
```

Add the TiFlash configuration as follows:

```yaml
spec:
  tiflash:
    baseImage: pingcap/tiflash
    maxFailoverCount: 3
    replicas: 1
    storageClaims:
    - resources:
        requests:
          storage: 100Gi
      storageClassName: local-storage
```

TiFlash supports mounting multiple Persistent Volumes (PVs). If you want to configure multiple PVs for TiFlash, configure multiple `resources` in `tiflash.storageClaims`, each `resources` with a separate `storage request` and `storageClassName`. For example:

```yaml
  tiflash:
    baseImage: pingcap/tiflash
    maxFailoverCount: 3
    replicas: 1
    storageClaims:
    - resources:
        requests:
          storage: 100Gi
      storageClassName: local-storage
    - resources:
        requests:
          storage: 100Gi
      storageClassName: local-storage
```

To [add TiFlash component to an existing TiDB cluster](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/tiflash/deploy-tiflash/#add-tiflash-component-to-an-existing-tidb-cluster), `replication.enable-placement-rules` should be set to `true` in PD. After you add the TiFlash configuration in TidbCluster by taking the above steps, TiDB Operator will automatically configure `replication.enable-placement-rules: "true"` in PD.

Commit message:

en, zh: add warning for configuring multiple pvs for tiflash (#515)
* add warning for configuring multiple pvs for tiflash

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Ran <huangran@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Ran <huangran@pingcap.com>

en/deploy-tiflash.md, after:

---
title: Deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/deploy-tiflash/']
---

# Deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes

This document describes how to deploy TiFlash on Kubernetes.

## Prerequisites

* [Deploy TiDB Operator](deploy-tidb-operator.md).

## Fresh TiFlash deployment

To deploy TiFlash when deploying the TiDB cluster, refer to [Deploy TiDB on General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md).

## Add TiFlash component to an existing TiDB cluster

Edit TidbCluster Custom Resource:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

``` shell
kubectl eidt tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
```

Add the TiFlash configuration as follows:

```yaml
spec:
  tiflash:
    baseImage: pingcap/tiflash
    maxFailoverCount: 3
    replicas: 1
    storageClaims:
    - resources:
        requests:
          storage: 100Gi
      storageClassName: local-storage
```

TiFlash supports mounting multiple Persistent Volumes (PVs). If you want to configure multiple PVs for TiFlash, configure multiple `resources` in `tiflash.storageClaims`, each `resources` with a separate `storage request` and `storageClassName`. For example:

```yaml
  tiflash:
    baseImage: pingcap/tiflash
    maxFailoverCount: 3
    replicas: 1
    storageClaims:
    - resources:
        requests:
          storage: 100Gi
      storageClassName: local-storage
    - resources:
        requests:
          storage: 100Gi
      storageClassName: local-storage
```

> **Warning:**
>
> Since TiDB Operator will mount PVs automatically in the **order** of the items in the `storageClaims` list, if you need to add more disks to TiFlash, make sure to append the new item only to the **end** of the original items, and **DO NOT** modify the order of the original items.

To [add TiFlash component to an existing TiDB cluster](https://pingcap.com/docs/stable/tiflash/deploy-tiflash/#add-tiflash-component-to-an-existing-tidb-cluster), `replication.enable-placement-rules` should be set to `true` in PD. After you add the TiFlash configuration in TidbCluster by taking the above steps, TiDB Operator will automatically configure `replication.enable-placement-rules: "true"` in PD.
