en/deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md, before:

---
title: Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy a TiDB cluster on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes.
category: how-to
---

# Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes

This document describes how to deploy a TiDB cluster on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes with your laptop (Linux or macOS) for development or testing.

## Prerequisites

- [aliyun-cli](https://github.com/aliyun/aliyun-cli) >= 3.0.15 and [configure aliyun-cli](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/doc-detail/90766.htm?spm=a2c63.l28256.a3.4.7b52a893EFVglq)

    > **Note:**
    >
    > The access key must be granted permissions to control the corresponding resources.

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) >= 1.12
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/using_helm/#installing-the-helm-client) >= 2.11.0 && < 3.0.0 && != [2.16.4](https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7797)
- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) >= 1.6
- [terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html) 0.12.*

You can use [Cloud Shell](https://shell.aliyun.com) of Alibaba Cloud to perform operations. All the tools have been pre-installed and configured in the Cloud Shell of Alibaba Cloud.

### Required privileges

To deploy a TiDB cluster, make sure you have the following privileges:

- AliyunECSFullAccess
- AliyunESSFullAccess
- AliyunVPCFullAccess
- AliyunSLBFullAccess
- AliyunCSFullAccess
- AliyunEIPFullAccess
- AliyunECIFullAccess
- AliyunVPNGatewayFullAccess
- AliyunNATGatewayFullAccess

## Overview of things to create

In the default configuration, you will create:

- A new VPC
- An ECS instance as the bastion machine
- A managed ACK (Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes) cluster with the following ECS instance worker nodes:

    - An auto-scaling group of 2 * instances (2 cores, 2 GB RAM). The default auto-scaling group of managed Kubernetes must have at least two instances to host the whole system service, like CoreDNS
    - An auto-scaling group of 3 * `ecs.g5.large` instances for deploying the PD cluster
    - An auto-scaling group of 3 * `ecs.i2.2xlarge` instances for deploying the TiKV cluster
    - An auto-scaling group of 2 * `ecs.c5.4xlarge` instances for deploying the TiDB cluster
    - An auto-scaling group of 1 * `ecs.c5.xlarge` instance for deploying monitoring components
    - A 100 GB cloud disk used to store monitoring data

All the instances except ACK mandatory workers are deployed across availability zones (AZs) to provide cross-AZ high availability. The auto-scaling group ensures the desired number of healthy instances, so the cluster can auto-recover from node failure or even AZ failure.

## Deploy

### Deploy ACK, TiDB Operator and the node pool for TiDB cluster

1. Configure the target Region and Alibaba Cloud key (you can also set these variables in the `terraform` command prompt):

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    export TF_VAR_ALICLOUD_REGION=${REGION} && \
    export TF_VAR_ALICLOUD_ACCESS_KEY=${ACCESS_KEY} && \
    export TF_VAR_ALICLOUD_SECRET_KEY=${SECRET_KEY}
    ```

    The `variables.tf` file contains default settings of variables used for deploying the cluster. You can change it or use the `-var` option to override a specific variable to fit your need.

2. Use Terraform to set up the cluster.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator && \
    cd tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun
    ```

    You can create or modify `terraform.tfvars` to set the values of the variables, and configure the cluster to fit your needs. You can view the configurable variables and their descriptions in `variables.tf`. The following is an example of how to configure the ACK cluster name, the TiDB cluster name, the TiDB Operator version, and the number of PD, TiKV, and TiDB nodes.

    ```
    cluster_name = "testack"
    tidb_cluster_name = "testdb"
    tikv_count = 3
    tidb_count = 2
    pd_count = 3
    operator_version = "v1.1.0-rc.1"
    ```

    * To deploy TiFlash in the cluster, set `create_tiflash_node_pool = true` in `terraform.tfvars`. You can also configure the node count and instance type of the TiFlash node pool by modifying `tiflash_count` and `tiflash_instance_type`. By default, the value of `tiflash_count` is `2`, and the value of `tiflash_instance_type` is `ecs.i2.2xlarge`.

    * To deploy TiCDC in the cluster, set `create_cdc_node_pool = true` in `terraform.tfvars`. You can also configure the node count and instance type of the TiCDC node pool by modifying `cdc_count` and `cdc_instance_type`. By default, the value of `cdc_count` is `3`, and the value of `cdc_instance_type` is `ecs.c5.2xlarge`.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > Check the `operator_version` in the `variables.tf` file for the default TiDB Operator version of the current scripts. If the default version is not your desired one, configure `operator_version` in `terraform.tfvars`.

    After the configuration, execute the following commands to initialize and deploy the cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    terraform init
    ```

    Input "yes" to confirm execution when you run the following `apply` command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    terraform apply
    ```

    If you get an error while running `terraform apply`, fix the error (for example, lack of permission) according to the error description and run `terraform apply` again.

    It takes 5 to 10 minutes to create the whole stack using `terraform apply`. Once installation is complete, the basic cluster information is printed:

    ```
    Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.

    Outputs:

    bastion_ip = 47.96.174.214
    cluster_id = c2d9b20854a194f158ef2bc8ea946f20e

    kubeconfig_file = /tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/credentials/kubeconfig
    monitor_endpoint = not_created
    region = cn-hangzhou
    ssh_key_file = /tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/credentials/my-cluster-keyZ.pem
    tidb_endpoint = not_created
    tidb_version = v3.0.0
    vpc_id = vpc-bp1v8i5rwsc7yh8dwyep5
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > You can use the `terraform output` command to get the output again.

3. You can then interact with the ACK cluster using `kubectl` or `helm`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/credentials/kubeconfig
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl version
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    helm ls
    ```

### Deploy the TiDB cluster and monitor

1. Prepare the `TidbCluster` and `TidbMonitor` CR files:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    cp manifests/db.yaml.example db.yaml && cp manifests/db-monitor.yaml.example db-monitor.yaml
    ```

    To complete the CR file configuration, refer to [TiDB Operator API documentation](api-references.md) and [Configuring TiDB Cluster](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md).

    * To deploy TiFlash, configure `spec.tiflash` in `db.yaml` as follows:

        ```yaml
        spec
          ...
          tiflash:
            baseImage: pingcap/tiflash
            maxFailoverCount: 3
            nodeSelector:
              dedicated: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-tiflash
            replicas: 1
            storageClaims:
            - resources:
                requests:
                  storage: 100Gi
              storageClassName: local-volume
            tolerations:
            - effect: NoSchedule
              key: dedicated
              operator: Equal
              value: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-tiflash
        ```

        Modify `replicas`, `storageClaims[].resources.requests.storage`, and `storageClassName` according to your needs.

    * To deploy TiCDC, configure `spec.ticdc` in `db.yaml` as follows:

        ```yaml
        spec
          ...
          ticdc:
            baseImage: pingcap/ticdc
            nodeSelector:
              dedicated: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-cdc
            replicas: 3
            tolerations:
            - effect: NoSchedule
              key: dedicated
              operator: Equal
              value: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-cdc
        ```

        Modify `replicas` according to your needs.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > * Replace all the `TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME` in the `db.yaml` and `db-monitor.yaml` files with `tidb_cluster_name` configured in the deployment of ACK.
    > * Make sure the number of PD, TiKV, TiFlash, TiCDC, or TiDB nodes is >= the `replicas` value of the corresponding component in `db.yaml`.
    > * Make sure `spec.initializer.version` in `db-monitor.yaml` is the same as `spec.version` in `db.yaml`. Otherwise, the monitor might not display correctly.

2. Create `Namespace`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig create namespace ${namespace}
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > You can give the [`namespace`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) a name that is easy to memorize, such as the same name as `tidb_cluster_name`.

3. Deploy the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig create -f db.yaml -n ${namespace} &&
    kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig create -f db-monitor.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

## Access the database

You can connect the TiDB cluster via the bastion instance. All necessary information is in the output printed after installation is finished (replace the `${}` parts with values from the output):

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
ssh -i credentials/${cluster_name}-key.pem root@${bastion_ip}
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
mysql -h ${tidb_lb_ip} -P 4000 -u root
```

`tidb_lb_ip` is the LoadBalancer IP of the TiDB service.

## Monitor

Visit `<monitor-lb>:3000` to view the Grafana dashboards. `monitor-lb` is the LoadBalancer IP of the Monitor service.

The initial login user account and password:

- User: admin
- Password: admin

> **Warning:**
>
> If you already have a VPN connecting to your VPC or plan to set up one, it is strongly recommended that you go to the `spec.grafana.service.annotations` section in the `db-monitor.yaml` file and set `service.beta.kubernetes.io/alicloud-loadbalancer-address-type` to `intranet` for security.

## Upgrade

To upgrade the TiDB cluster, modify the `spec.version` variable by executing `kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig edit tc ${tidb_cluster_name} -n ${namespace}`.

This may take a while to complete. You can watch the process using the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get pods --namespace ${namespace} -o wide --watch
```

## Scale out TiDB cluster

To scale out the TiDB cluster, modify `tikv_count`, `tiflash_count`, `cdc_count`, or `tidb_count` in the `terraform.tfvars` file, and then run `terraform apply` to scale out the number of nodes for the corresponding components.

After the nodes scale out, modify the `replicas` of the corresponding components by running `kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig edit tc ${tidb_cluster_name} -n ${namespace}`.

> **Note:**
>
> - Because it is impossible to determine which node will be taken offline during the scale-in process, the scale-in of TiDB clusters is currently not supported.
> - The scale-out process takes a few minutes. You can watch the status by running `kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig get po -n ${namespace} --watch`.

## Configure

### Configure TiDB Operator

You can set the variables in `terraform.tfvars` to configure TiDB Operator. Most configuration items can be modified after you understand the semantics based on the comments of the `variable`. Note that the `operator_helm_values` configuration item can provide a customized `values.yaml` configuration file for TiDB Operator. For example:

- Set `operator_helm_values` in `terraform.tfvars`:

    ```hcl
    operator_helm_values = "./my-operator-values.yaml"
    ```

- Set `operator_helm_values` in `main.tf`:

    ```hcl
    operator_helm_values = file("./my-operator-values.yaml")
    ```

In the default configuration, the Terraform script creates a new VPC. To use the existing VPC, set `vpc_id` in `variable.tf`. In this case, Kubernetes nodes are not deployed in AZs with vswitch not configured.

### Configure the TiDB cluster

See [TiDB Operator API Documentation](api-references.md) and [Configuring TiDB Cluster](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md).

## Manage multiple TiDB clusters

To manage multiple TiDB clusters in a single Kubernetes cluster, you need to edit `./main.tf` and add the `tidb-cluster` declaration based on your needs. For example:

```hcl
module "tidb-cluster-dev" {
  source = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-cluster"
  providers = {
    helm = helm.default
  }

  cluster_name = "dev-cluster"
  ack          = module.tidb-operator

  pd_count                   = 1
  tikv_count                 = 1
  tidb_count                 = 1
}

module "tidb-cluster-staging" {
  source = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-cluster"
  providers = {
    helm = helm.default
  }

  cluster_name = "staging-cluster"
  ack          = module.tidb-operator

  pd_count                   = 3
  tikv_count                 = 3
  tidb_count                 = 2
}
```

> **Note:**
>
> You need to set a unique `cluster_name` for each TiDB cluster.

All the configurable parameters in `tidb-cluster` are as follows:

| Parameter | Description | Default value |
| :----- | :---- | :----- |
| `ack` | The structure that enwraps the target Kubernetes cluster information (required) | `nil` |
| `cluster_name` | The TiDB cluster name (required and unique) | `nil` |
| `tidb_version` | The TiDB cluster version | `v3.0.1` |
| `tidb_cluster_chart_version` | `tidb-cluster` helm chart version | `v1.0.1` |
| `pd_count` | The number of PD nodes | 3 |
| `pd_instance_type` | The PD instance type | `ecs.g5.large` |
| `tikv_count` | The number of TiKV nodes | 3 |
| `tikv_instance_type` | The TiKV instance type | `ecs.i2.2xlarge` |
| `tiflash_count` | The count of TiFlash nodes | 2 |
| `tiflash_instance_type` | The TiFlash instance type | `ecs.i2.2xlarge` |
| `cdc_count` | The count of TiCDC nodes | 3 |
| `cdc_instance_type` | The TiCDC instance type | `ecs.c5.2xlarge` |
| `tidb_count` | The number of TiDB nodes | 2 |
| `tidb_instance_type` | The TiDB instance type | `ecs.c5.4xlarge` |
| `monitor_instance_type` | The instance type of monitoring components | `ecs.c5.xlarge` |
| `override_values` | The `values.yaml` configuration file of the TiDB cluster. You can read it using the `file()` function | `nil` |
| `local_exec_interpreter` | The interpreter that executes the command line instruction | `["/bin/sh", "-c"]` |
| `create_tidb_cluster_release` | Whether to create the TiDB cluster using Helm | `false` |

## Manage multiple Kubernetes clusters

It is recommended to use a separate Terraform module to manage a specific Kubernetes cluster. (A Terraform module is a directory that contains the `.tf` script.)

`deploy/aliyun` combines multiple reusable Terraform scripts in `deploy/modules`. To manage multiple clusters, perform the following operations in the root directory of the `tidb-operator` project:

1. Create a directory for each cluster. For example:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    mkdir -p deploy/aliyun-staging
    ```

2. Refer to `main.tf` in `deploy/aliyun` and write your own script. For example:

    ```hcl
    provider "alicloud" {
        region     = ${REGION}
        access_key = ${ACCESS_KEY}
        secret_key = ${SECRET_KEY}
    }

    module "tidb-operator" {
        source     = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-operator"

        region          = ${REGION}
        access_key      = ${ACCESS_KEY}
        secret_key      = ${SECRET_KEY}
        cluster_name    = "example-cluster"
        key_file        = "ssh-key.pem"
        kubeconfig_file = "kubeconfig"
    }

    provider "helm" {
        alias    = "default"
        insecure = true
        install_tiller = false
        kubernetes {
            config_path = module.tidb-operator.kubeconfig_filename
        }
    }

    module "tidb-cluster" {
        source = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-cluster"
        providers = {
            helm = helm.default
        }

        cluster_name = "example-cluster"
        ack          = module.tidb-operator
    }

    module "bastion" {
        source = "../modules/aliyun/bastion"

        bastion_name             = "example-bastion"
        key_name                 = module.tidb-operator.key_name
        vpc_id                   = module.tidb-operator.vpc_id
        vswitch_id               = module.tidb-operator.vswitch_ids[0]
        enable_ssh_to_worker     = true
        worker_security_group_id = module.tidb-operator.security_group_id
    }
    ```

You can customize this script. For example, you can remove the `module "bastion"` declaration if you do not need the bastion machine.

> **Note:**
>
> You can copy the `deploy/aliyun` directory. But you cannot copy a directory on which the `terraform apply` operation is currently performed. In this case, it is recommended to clone the repository again and then copy it.

## Destroy

1. Refer to [Destroy a TiDB cluster](destroy-a-tidb-cluster.md) to delete the cluster.

2. Destroy the ACK cluster by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    terraform destroy
    ```

If the Kubernetes cluster is not successfully created, the `destroy` operation might return an error and fail. In such cases, manually remove the Kubernetes resources from the local state:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
terraform state list
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
terraform state rm module.ack.alicloud_cs_managed_kubernetes.k8s
```

It may take a long time to finish destroying the cluster.

> **Note:**
>
> You have to manually delete the cloud disk used by the components in the Alibaba Cloud console.

## Limitation

You cannot change `pod cidr`, `service cidr` and worker instance types once the cluster is created.

Commit message:

en: batch add aliases to dev (#496)

en/deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md, after:

---
title: Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes
summary: Learn how to deploy a TiDB cluster on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/deploy-on-alibaba-cloud/']
---

# Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes

This document describes how to deploy a TiDB cluster on Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes with your laptop (Linux or macOS) for development or testing.

## Prerequisites

- [aliyun-cli](https://github.com/aliyun/aliyun-cli) >= 3.0.15 and [configure aliyun-cli](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/doc-detail/90766.htm?spm=a2c63.l28256.a3.4.7b52a893EFVglq)

    > **Note:**
    >
    > The access key must be granted permissions to control the corresponding resources.

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) >= 1.12
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/using_helm/#installing-the-helm-client) >= 2.11.0 && < 3.0.0 && != [2.16.4](https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/7797)
- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) >= 1.6
- [terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html) 0.12.*

You can use [Cloud Shell](https://shell.aliyun.com) of Alibaba Cloud to perform operations. All the tools have been pre-installed and configured in the Cloud Shell of Alibaba Cloud.

### Required privileges

To deploy a TiDB cluster, make sure you have the following privileges:

- AliyunECSFullAccess
- AliyunESSFullAccess
- AliyunVPCFullAccess
- AliyunSLBFullAccess
- AliyunCSFullAccess
- AliyunEIPFullAccess
- AliyunECIFullAccess
- AliyunVPNGatewayFullAccess
- AliyunNATGatewayFullAccess

## Overview of things to create

In the default configuration, you will create:

- A new VPC
- An ECS instance as the bastion machine
- A managed ACK (Alibaba Cloud Kubernetes) cluster with the following ECS instance worker nodes:

    - An auto-scaling group of 2 * instances (2 cores, 2 GB RAM). The default auto-scaling group of managed Kubernetes must have at least two instances to host the whole system service, like CoreDNS
    - An auto-scaling group of 3 * `ecs.g5.large` instances for deploying the PD cluster
    - An auto-scaling group of 3 * `ecs.i2.2xlarge` instances for deploying the TiKV cluster
    - An auto-scaling group of 2 * `ecs.c5.4xlarge` instances for deploying the TiDB cluster
    - An auto-scaling group of 1 * `ecs.c5.xlarge` instance for deploying monitoring components
    - A 100 GB cloud disk used to store monitoring data

All the instances except ACK mandatory workers are deployed across availability zones (AZs) to provide cross-AZ high availability. The auto-scaling group ensures the desired number of healthy instances, so the cluster can auto-recover from node failure or even AZ failure.

## Deploy

### Deploy ACK, TiDB Operator and the node pool for TiDB cluster

1. Configure the target Region and Alibaba Cloud key (you can also set these variables in the `terraform` command prompt):

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    export TF_VAR_ALICLOUD_REGION=${REGION} && \
    export TF_VAR_ALICLOUD_ACCESS_KEY=${ACCESS_KEY} && \
    export TF_VAR_ALICLOUD_SECRET_KEY=${SECRET_KEY}
    ```

    The `variables.tf` file contains default settings of variables used for deploying the cluster. You can change it or use the `-var` option to override a specific variable to fit your need.

2. Use Terraform to set up the cluster.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator && \
    cd tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun
    ```

    You can create or modify `terraform.tfvars` to set the values of the variables, and configure the cluster to fit your needs. You can view the configurable variables and their descriptions in `variables.tf`. The following is an example of how to configure the ACK cluster name, the TiDB cluster name, the TiDB Operator version, and the number of PD, TiKV, and TiDB nodes.

    ```
    cluster_name = "testack"
    tidb_cluster_name = "testdb"
    tikv_count = 3
    tidb_count = 2
    pd_count = 3
    operator_version = "v1.1.0-rc.1"
    ```

    * To deploy TiFlash in the cluster, set `create_tiflash_node_pool = true` in `terraform.tfvars`. You can also configure the node count and instance type of the TiFlash node pool by modifying `tiflash_count` and `tiflash_instance_type`. By default, the value of `tiflash_count` is `2`, and the value of `tiflash_instance_type` is `ecs.i2.2xlarge`.

    * To deploy TiCDC in the cluster, set `create_cdc_node_pool = true` in `terraform.tfvars`. You can also configure the node count and instance type of the TiCDC node pool by modifying `cdc_count` and `cdc_instance_type`. By default, the value of `cdc_count` is `3`, and the value of `cdc_instance_type` is `ecs.c5.2xlarge`.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > Check the `operator_version` in the `variables.tf` file for the default TiDB Operator version of the current scripts. If the default version is not your desired one, configure `operator_version` in `terraform.tfvars`.

    After the configuration, execute the following commands to initialize and deploy the cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    terraform init
    ```

    Input "yes" to confirm execution when you run the following `apply` command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    terraform apply
    ```

    If you get an error while running `terraform apply`, fix the error (for example, lack of permission) according to the error description and run `terraform apply` again.

    It takes 5 to 10 minutes to create the whole stack using `terraform apply`. Once installation is complete, the basic cluster information is printed:

    ```
    Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 1 destroyed.

    Outputs:

    bastion_ip = 47.96.174.214
    cluster_id = c2d9b20854a194f158ef2bc8ea946f20e

    kubeconfig_file = /tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/credentials/kubeconfig
    monitor_endpoint = not_created
    region = cn-hangzhou
    ssh_key_file = /tidb-operator/deploy/aliyun/credentials/my-cluster-keyZ.pem
    tidb_endpoint = not_created
    tidb_version = v3.0.0
    vpc_id = vpc-bp1v8i5rwsc7yh8dwyep5
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > You can use the `terraform output` command to get the output again.

3. You can then interact with the ACK cluster using `kubectl` or `helm`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/credentials/kubeconfig
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl version
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    helm ls
    ```

### Deploy the TiDB cluster and monitor

1. Prepare the `TidbCluster` and `TidbMonitor` CR files:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    cp manifests/db.yaml.example db.yaml && cp manifests/db-monitor.yaml.example db-monitor.yaml
    ```

    To complete the CR file configuration, refer to [TiDB Operator API documentation](api-references.md) and [Configuring TiDB Cluster](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md).

    * To deploy TiFlash, configure `spec.tiflash` in `db.yaml` as follows:

        ```yaml
        spec
          ...
          tiflash:
            baseImage: pingcap/tiflash
            maxFailoverCount: 3
            nodeSelector:
              dedicated: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-tiflash
            replicas: 1
            storageClaims:
            - resources:
                requests:
                  storage: 100Gi
              storageClassName: local-volume
            tolerations:
            - effect: NoSchedule
              key: dedicated
              operator: Equal
              value: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-tiflash
        ```

        Modify `replicas`, `storageClaims[].resources.requests.storage`, and `storageClassName` according to your needs.

    * To deploy TiCDC, configure `spec.ticdc` in `db.yaml` as follows:

        ```yaml
        spec
          ...
          ticdc:
            baseImage: pingcap/ticdc
            nodeSelector:
              dedicated: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-cdc
            replicas: 3
            tolerations:
            - effect: NoSchedule
              key: dedicated
              operator: Equal
              value: TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME-cdc
        ```

        Modify `replicas` according to your needs.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > * Replace all the `TIDB_CLUSTER_NAME` in the `db.yaml` and `db-monitor.yaml` files with `tidb_cluster_name` configured in the deployment of ACK.
    > * Make sure the number of PD, TiKV, TiFlash, TiCDC, or TiDB nodes is >= the `replicas` value of the corresponding component in `db.yaml`.
    > * Make sure `spec.initializer.version` in `db-monitor.yaml` is the same as `spec.version` in `db.yaml`. Otherwise, the monitor might not display correctly.

2. Create `Namespace`:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig create namespace ${namespace}
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > You can give the [`namespace`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) a name that is easy to memorize, such as the same name as `tidb_cluster_name`.

3. Deploy the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig create -f db.yaml -n ${namespace} &&
    kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig create -f db-monitor.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

## Access the database

You can connect the TiDB cluster via the bastion instance. All necessary information is in the output printed after installation is finished (replace the `${}` parts with values from the output):

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
ssh -i credentials/${cluster_name}-key.pem root@${bastion_ip}
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
mysql -h ${tidb_lb_ip} -P 4000 -u root
```

`tidb_lb_ip` is the LoadBalancer IP of the TiDB service.

## Monitor

Visit `<monitor-lb>:3000` to view the Grafana dashboards. `monitor-lb` is the LoadBalancer IP of the Monitor service.

The initial login user account and password:

- User: admin
- Password: admin

> **Warning:**
>
> If you already have a VPN connecting to your VPC or plan to set up one, it is strongly recommended that you go to the `spec.grafana.service.annotations` section in the `db-monitor.yaml` file and set `service.beta.kubernetes.io/alicloud-loadbalancer-address-type` to `intranet` for security.

## Upgrade

To upgrade the TiDB cluster, modify the `spec.version` variable by executing `kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig edit tc ${tidb_cluster_name} -n ${namespace}`.

This may take a while to complete. You can watch the process using the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl get pods --namespace ${namespace} -o wide --watch
```

## Scale out TiDB cluster

To scale out the TiDB cluster, modify `tikv_count`, `tiflash_count`, `cdc_count`, or `tidb_count` in the `terraform.tfvars` file, and then run `terraform apply` to scale out the number of nodes for the corresponding components.

After the nodes scale out, modify the `replicas` of the corresponding components by running `kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig edit tc ${tidb_cluster_name} -n ${namespace}`.

> **Note:**
>
> - Because it is impossible to determine which node will be taken offline during the scale-in process, the scale-in of TiDB clusters is currently not supported.
> - The scale-out process takes a few minutes. You can watch the status by running `kubectl --kubeconfig credentials/kubeconfig get po -n ${namespace} --watch`.

## Configure

### Configure TiDB Operator

You can set the variables in `terraform.tfvars` to configure TiDB Operator. Most configuration items can be modified after you understand the semantics based on the comments of the `variable`. Note that the `operator_helm_values` configuration item can provide a customized `values.yaml` configuration file for TiDB Operator. For example:

- Set `operator_helm_values` in `terraform.tfvars`:

    ```hcl
    operator_helm_values = "./my-operator-values.yaml"
    ```

- Set `operator_helm_values` in `main.tf`:

    ```hcl
    operator_helm_values = file("./my-operator-values.yaml")
    ```

In the default configuration, the Terraform script creates a new VPC. To use the existing VPC, set `vpc_id` in `variable.tf`. In this case, Kubernetes nodes are not deployed in AZs with vswitch not configured.

### Configure the TiDB cluster

See [TiDB Operator API Documentation](api-references.md) and [Configuring TiDB Cluster](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md).

## Manage multiple TiDB clusters

To manage multiple TiDB clusters in a single Kubernetes cluster, you need to edit `./main.tf` and add the `tidb-cluster` declaration based on your needs. For example:

```hcl
module "tidb-cluster-dev" {
  source = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-cluster"
  providers = {
    helm = helm.default
  }

  cluster_name = "dev-cluster"
  ack          = module.tidb-operator

  pd_count                   = 1
  tikv_count                 = 1
  tidb_count                 = 1
}

module "tidb-cluster-staging" {
  source = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-cluster"
  providers = {
    helm = helm.default
  }

  cluster_name = "staging-cluster"
  ack          = module.tidb-operator

  pd_count                   = 3
  tikv_count                 = 3
  tidb_count                 = 2
}
```

> **Note:**
>
> You need to set a unique `cluster_name` for each TiDB cluster.

All the configurable parameters in `tidb-cluster` are as follows:

| Parameter | Description | Default value |
| :----- | :---- | :----- |
| `ack` | The structure that enwraps the target Kubernetes cluster information (required) | `nil` |
| `cluster_name` | The TiDB cluster name (required and unique) | `nil` |
| `tidb_version` | The TiDB cluster version | `v3.0.1` |
| `tidb_cluster_chart_version` | `tidb-cluster` helm chart version | `v1.0.1` |
| `pd_count` | The number of PD nodes | 3 |
| `pd_instance_type` | The PD instance type | `ecs.g5.large` |
| `tikv_count` | The number of TiKV nodes | 3 |
| `tikv_instance_type` | The TiKV instance type | `ecs.i2.2xlarge` |
| `tiflash_count` | The count of TiFlash nodes | 2 |
| `tiflash_instance_type` | The TiFlash instance type | `ecs.i2.2xlarge` |
| `cdc_count` | The count of TiCDC nodes | 3 |
| `cdc_instance_type` | The TiCDC instance type | `ecs.c5.2xlarge` |
| `tidb_count` | The number of TiDB nodes | 2 |
| `tidb_instance_type` | The TiDB instance type | `ecs.c5.4xlarge` |
| `monitor_instance_type` | The instance type of monitoring components | `ecs.c5.xlarge` |
| `override_values` | The `values.yaml` configuration file of the TiDB cluster. You can read it using the `file()` function | `nil` |
| `local_exec_interpreter` | The interpreter that executes the command line instruction | `["/bin/sh", "-c"]` |
| `create_tidb_cluster_release` | Whether to create the TiDB cluster using Helm | `false` |

## Manage multiple Kubernetes clusters

It is recommended to use a separate Terraform module to manage a specific Kubernetes cluster. (A Terraform module is a directory that contains the `.tf` script.)

`deploy/aliyun` combines multiple reusable Terraform scripts in `deploy/modules`. To manage multiple clusters, perform the following operations in the root directory of the `tidb-operator` project:

1. Create a directory for each cluster. For example:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    mkdir -p deploy/aliyun-staging
    ```

2. Refer to `main.tf` in `deploy/aliyun` and write your own script. For example:

    ```hcl
    provider "alicloud" {
        region     = ${REGION}
        access_key = ${ACCESS_KEY}
        secret_key = ${SECRET_KEY}
    }

    module "tidb-operator" {
        source     = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-operator"

        region          = ${REGION}
        access_key      = ${ACCESS_KEY}
        secret_key      = ${SECRET_KEY}
        cluster_name    = "example-cluster"
        key_file        = "ssh-key.pem"
        kubeconfig_file = "kubeconfig"
    }

    provider "helm" {
        alias    = "default"
        insecure = true
        install_tiller = false
        kubernetes {
            config_path = module.tidb-operator.kubeconfig_filename
        }
    }

    module "tidb-cluster" {
        source = "../modules/aliyun/tidb-cluster"
        providers = {
            helm = helm.default
        }

        cluster_name = "example-cluster"
        ack          = module.tidb-operator
    }

    module "bastion" {
        source = "../modules/aliyun/bastion"

        bastion_name             = "example-bastion"
        key_name                 = module.tidb-operator.key_name
        vpc_id                   = module.tidb-operator.vpc_id
        vswitch_id               = module.tidb-operator.vswitch_ids[0]
        enable_ssh_to_worker     = true
        worker_security_group_id = module.tidb-operator.security_group_id
    }
    ```

You can customize this script. For example, you can remove the `module "bastion"` declaration if you do not need the bastion machine.

> **Note:**
>
> You can copy the `deploy/aliyun` directory. But you cannot copy a directory on which the `terraform apply` operation is currently performed. In this case, it is recommended to clone the repository again and then copy it.

## Destroy

1. Refer to [Destroy a TiDB cluster](destroy-a-tidb-cluster.md) to delete the cluster.

2. Destroy the ACK cluster by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    terraform destroy
    ```

If the Kubernetes cluster is not successfully created, the `destroy` operation might return an error and fail. In such cases, manually remove the Kubernetes resources from the local state:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
terraform state list
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
terraform state rm module.ack.alicloud_cs_managed_kubernetes.k8s
```

It may take a long time to finish destroying the cluster.

> **Note:**
>
> You have to manually delete the cloud disk used by the components in the Alibaba Cloud console.

## Limitation

You cannot change `pod cidr`, `service cidr` and worker instance types once the cluster is created.
