en/enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling.md, before:

---
title: Enable TidbCluster Auto-scaling
summary: Learn how to use the TidbCluster auto-scaling feature.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling/']
---

# Enable TidbCluster Auto-scaling

Kubernetes provides [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/), a native API based on CPU utilization. Correspondingly, in TiDB Operator 1.1 and later versions, you can enable the auto-scaling feature in a TiDB cluster based on the features of Kubernetes. This document introduces how to enable and use the auto-scaling feature of `TidbCluster`.

## Enable the auto-scaling feature

> **Warning:**
>
> * The auto-scaling feature is in the alpha stage. It is highly **not recommended** to enable this feature in the critical production environment.
> * It is recommended to try this feature in a test environment on the internal network. PingCAP welcomes your comments and suggestions to help improve this feature.

To turn this feature on, you need to enable some related configurations in TiDB Operator. The auto-scaling feature is disabled by default. Take the following steps to manually turn it on.

1. Edit the `values.yaml` file in TiDB Operator.

    Enable `AutoScaling` in the `features` option:

    ```yaml
    features:
      - AutoScaling=true
    ```

    Enable the `Operator Webhook` feature:

    ```yaml
    admissionWebhook:
      create: true
      mutation:
        pods: true
    ```

    For more information about `Operator Webhook`, see [Enable Admission Controller in TiDB Operator](enable-admission-webhook.md).

2. Install or update TiDB Operator.

    To install or update TiDB Operator, see [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](deploy-tidb-operator.md).

3. Confirm the resource configuration of the target TiDB cluster.

    Before using the auto-scaling feature on the target TiDB cluster, first you need to configure the CPU setting of the corresponding components. For example, you need to configure `spec.tikv.requests.cpu` in TiKV:

    ```yaml
    spec:
      tikv:
        requests:
          cpu: "1"
      tidb:
        requests:
          cpu: "1"
    ```

## `TidbClusterAutoScaler`

The `TidbClusterAutoScaler` CR object is used to control the behavior of the auto-scaling in the TiDB cluster. If you have used [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/), presumably you are familiar with the notion `TidbClusterAutoScaler`. The following is an auto-scaling example in TiKV.

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
metadata:
  name: auto-scaling-demo
spec:
  cluster:
    name: auto-scaling-demo
    namespace: default
  monitor:
    name: auto-scaling-demo
    namespace: default
  tikv:
    minReplicas: 3
    maxReplicas: 4
    metrics:
      - type: "Resource"
        resource:
          name: "cpu"
          target:
            type: "Utilization"
            averageUtilization: 80
```

The TiDB component can be configured using `spec.tidb`. Currently, the auto-scaling API of TiDB is the same as that of TiKV.

In a `TidbClusterAutoScaler` object, the `cluster` attribute specifies the TiDB clusters to be auto-scaled. These clusters are marked by `name` and `namespace`. You need to provide the metrics collection and query service to `TidbClusterAutoScaler` because it captures resource usage through the metrics collection component. The `monitor` attribute refers to the `TidbMonitor` object. For more information, see [Monitor TiDB Clusters using TidbMonitor](monitor-using-tidbmonitor.md).

For the external `Prometheus` other than `TidbMonitor`, you can fill in the Host by configuring `spec.metricsUrl` to specify the monitoring metrics collection service for the TiDB cluster. If you deploy the monitoring of the TiDB cluster using `Helm`, take the following steps to specify `spec.metricsUrl`.

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
metadata:
  name: auto-scaling-demo
spec:
  cluster:
    name: auto-scaling-demo
    namespace: default
  metricsUrl: "http://${release_name}-prometheus.${namespace}.svc:9090"
  ......
```

## Example

1. Run the following commands to quickly deploy a TiDB cluster with 3 PD instances, 3 TiKV instances, 2 TiDB instances, and the monitoring and the auto-scaling features.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/auto-scale/tidb-cluster.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/auto-scale/tidb-monitor.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/auto-scale/tidb-cluster-auto-scaler.yaml  -n ${namespace}
    ```

2. After the TiDB cluster is created, expose the TiDB cluster service to the local machine by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward svc/auto-scaling-demo-tidb 4000:4000 &
    ```

    Copy the following content and paste it to the local `sysbench.config` file:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```config
    mysql-host=127.0.0.1
    mysql-port=4000
    mysql-user=root
    mysql-password=
    mysql-db=test
    time=120
    threads=20
    report-interval=5
    db-driver=mysql
    ```

3. Prepare data and perform the stress test against the auto-scaling feature using [sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench).

    Copy the following content and paste it to the local `sysbench.config` file:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```config
    mysql-host=127.0.0.1
    mysql-port=4000
    mysql-user=root
    mysql-password=
    mysql-db=test
    time=120
    threads=20
    report-interval=5
    db-driver=mysql
    ```

    Prepare data by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    sysbench --config-file=${path-to-file}/sysbench.config oltp_point_select --tables=1 --table-size=20000 prepare
    ```

    Start the stress test:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    sysbench --config-file=${path-to-file}/sysbench.config oltp_point_select --tables=1 --table-size=20000 run
    ```

    The command above will return the following result:

    ```sh
    Initializing worker threads...

    Threads started!

    [ 5s ] thds: 20 tps: 37686.35 qps: 37686.35 (r/w/o: 37686.35/0.00/0.00) lat (ms,95%): 0.99 err/s: 0.00 reconn/s: 0.00
    [ 10s ] thds: 20 tps: 38487.20 qps: 38487.20 (r/w/o: 38487.20/0.00/0.00) lat (ms,95%): 0.95 err/s: 0.00 reconn/s: 0.00
    ```

4. Create a new terminal session and view the Pod changing status of the TiDB cluster by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    watch -n1 "kubectl -n ${namespace} get pod"
    ```

    The output is as follows:

    ```sh
    auto-scaling-demo-discovery-fbd95b679-f4cb9   1/1     Running   0          17m
    auto-scaling-demo-monitor-6857c58564-ftkp4    3/3     Running   0          17m
    auto-scaling-demo-pd-0                        1/1     Running   0          17m
    auto-scaling-demo-tidb-0                      2/2     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tidb-1                      2/2     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tikv-0                      1/1     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tikv-1                      1/1     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tikv-2                      1/1     Running   0          15m
    ```

    View the changing status of Pods and the TPS and QPS of sysbench. When new Pods are created in TiKV and TiDB, the TPS and QPS of sysbench increase significantly.

    After sysbench finishes the test, the newly created Pods in TiKV and TiDB disappear automatically.

5. Destroy the environment by running the following commands:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl delete tidbcluster auto-scaling-demo -n ${namespace}
    kubectl delete tidbmonitor auto-scaling-demo -n ${namespace}
    kubectl delete tidbclusterautoscaler auto-scaling-demo -n ${namespace}
    ```

## `TidbClusterAutoScaler` configurations

1. Set the auto-scaling interval.

    Compared with the stateless web service, a distributed database software is often sensitive to the instance auto-scaling. You need to make sure that there is a certain interval between each auto-scaling in case scaling operations are too frequent.
    You can set the interval (in seconds) between each auto-scaling by configuring `spec.tikv.scaleInIntervalSeconds` and `spec.tikv.ScaleOutIntervalSeconds` in TiTV. This also applies to TiDB.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: auto-scaler
    spec:
      tidb:
        scaleInIntervalSeconds: 500
        ScaleOutIntervalSeconds: 300
      tikv:
        scaleInIntervalSeconds: 500
        ScaleOutIntervalSeconds: 300
    ```

2. Set the maximum value and the minimum value.

    You can set the maximum value and the minimum value of each component in `TidbClusterAutoScaler` to control the scaling range of `TiDB` and `TiKV`, which is similar to [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/).

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: auto-scaling-demo
    spec:
      tikv:
        minReplicas: 3
        maxReplicas: 4
      tidb:
        minReplicas: 2
        maxReplicas: 3
    ```

3. Set the CPU auto-scaling configurations.

    Currently, `TidbClusterAutoScaler` only supports CPU utilization based auto-scaling. The descriptive API is as follows. `averageUtilization` refers to the threshold of CPU utilization. If the utilization exceeds 80%, the auto-scaling is triggered.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: auto-scaling-demo
    spec:
      tikv:
        minReplicas: 3
        maxReplicas: 4
        metrics:
          - type: "Resource"
            resource:
              name: "cpu"
              target:
                type: "Utilization"
                averageUtilization: 80
    ```

4. Set the time window configurations.

    The CPU utilization based auto-scaling allows `TidbClusterAutoScaler` to get the CPU metrics of `TiDB` and `TiKV` from the specified monitoring system. You can specify the time window of metrics collection.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: basic
      tidb:
        metricsTimeDuration: "1m"
        metrics:
          - type: "Resource"
            resource:
              name: "cpu"
              target:
                type: "Utilization"
                averageUtilization: 60
    ```

Commit message:

en, zh: update wording to include elastic scheduling (#631)
* update wording to include elastic scheduling

Signed-off-by: Ran <huangran@pingcap.com>

* Update zh/enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

en/enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling.md, after:

---
title: Enable TidbCluster Auto-scaling
summary: Learn how to use the TidbCluster auto-scaling feature.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/enable-tidb-cluster-auto-scaling/']
---

# Enable TidbCluster Auto-scaling

Kubernetes provides [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/), a native API based on CPU utilization. Based on Kubernetes, TiDB 4.0 has implemented an elastic scheduling mechanism. Correspondingly, in TiDB Operator 1.1 and later versions, you can enable the auto-scaling feature to enable elastic scheduling. This document introduces how to enable and use the auto-scaling feature of `TidbCluster`.

## Enable the auto-scaling feature

> **Warning:**
>
> * The auto-scaling feature is in the alpha stage. It is highly **not recommended** to enable this feature in the critical production environment.
> * It is recommended to try this feature in a test environment on the internal network. PingCAP welcomes your comments and suggestions to help improve this feature.

To turn this feature on, you need to enable some related configurations in TiDB Operator. The auto-scaling feature is disabled by default. Take the following steps to manually turn it on.

1. Edit the `values.yaml` file in TiDB Operator.

    Enable `AutoScaling` in the `features` option:

    ```yaml
    features:
      - AutoScaling=true
    ```

    Enable the `Operator Webhook` feature:

    ```yaml
    admissionWebhook:
      create: true
      mutation:
        pods: true
    ```

    For more information about `Operator Webhook`, see [Enable Admission Controller in TiDB Operator](enable-admission-webhook.md).

2. Install or update TiDB Operator.

    To install or update TiDB Operator, see [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](deploy-tidb-operator.md).

3. Confirm the resource configuration of the target TiDB cluster.

    Before using the auto-scaling feature on the target TiDB cluster, first you need to configure the CPU setting of the corresponding components. For example, you need to configure `spec.tikv.requests.cpu` in TiKV:

    ```yaml
    spec:
      tikv:
        requests:
          cpu: "1"
      tidb:
        requests:
          cpu: "1"
    ```

## `TidbClusterAutoScaler`

The `TidbClusterAutoScaler` CR object is used to control the behavior of the auto-scaling in the TiDB cluster. If you have used [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/), presumably you are familiar with the notion `TidbClusterAutoScaler`. The following is an auto-scaling example in TiKV.

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
metadata:
  name: auto-scaling-demo
spec:
  cluster:
    name: auto-scaling-demo
    namespace: default
  monitor:
    name: auto-scaling-demo
    namespace: default
  tikv:
    minReplicas: 3
    maxReplicas: 4
    metrics:
      - type: "Resource"
        resource:
          name: "cpu"
          target:
            type: "Utilization"
            averageUtilization: 80
```

The TiDB component can be configured using `spec.tidb`. Currently, the auto-scaling API of TiDB is the same as that of TiKV.

In a `TidbClusterAutoScaler` object, the `cluster` attribute specifies the TiDB clusters to be auto-scaled. These clusters are marked by `name` and `namespace`. You need to provide the metrics collection and query service to `TidbClusterAutoScaler` because it captures resource usage through the metrics collection component. The `monitor` attribute refers to the `TidbMonitor` object. For more information, see [Monitor TiDB Clusters using TidbMonitor](monitor-using-tidbmonitor.md).

For the external `Prometheus` other than `TidbMonitor`, you can fill in the Host by configuring `spec.metricsUrl` to specify the monitoring metrics collection service for the TiDB cluster. If you deploy the monitoring of the TiDB cluster using `Helm`, take the following steps to specify `spec.metricsUrl`.

```yaml
apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
metadata:
  name: auto-scaling-demo
spec:
  cluster:
    name: auto-scaling-demo
    namespace: default
  metricsUrl: "http://${release_name}-prometheus.${namespace}.svc:9090"
  ......
```

## Example

1. Run the following commands to quickly deploy a TiDB cluster with 3 PD instances, 3 TiKV instances, 2 TiDB instances, and the monitoring and the auto-scaling features.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/auto-scale/tidb-cluster.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/auto-scale/tidb-monitor.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/master/examples/auto-scale/tidb-cluster-auto-scaler.yaml  -n ${namespace}
    ```

2. After the TiDB cluster is created, expose the TiDB cluster service to the local machine by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward svc/auto-scaling-demo-tidb 4000:4000 &
    ```

    Copy the following content and paste it to the local `sysbench.config` file:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```config
    mysql-host=127.0.0.1
    mysql-port=4000
    mysql-user=root
    mysql-password=
    mysql-db=test
    time=120
    threads=20
    report-interval=5
    db-driver=mysql
    ```

3. Prepare data and perform the stress test against the auto-scaling feature using [sysbench](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench).

    Copy the following content and paste it to the local `sysbench.config` file:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```config
    mysql-host=127.0.0.1
    mysql-port=4000
    mysql-user=root
    mysql-password=
    mysql-db=test
    time=120
    threads=20
    report-interval=5
    db-driver=mysql
    ```

    Prepare data by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    sysbench --config-file=${path-to-file}/sysbench.config oltp_point_select --tables=1 --table-size=20000 prepare
    ```

    Start the stress test:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    sysbench --config-file=${path-to-file}/sysbench.config oltp_point_select --tables=1 --table-size=20000 run
    ```

    The command above will return the following result:

    ```sh
    Initializing worker threads...

    Threads started!

    [ 5s ] thds: 20 tps: 37686.35 qps: 37686.35 (r/w/o: 37686.35/0.00/0.00) lat (ms,95%): 0.99 err/s: 0.00 reconn/s: 0.00
    [ 10s ] thds: 20 tps: 38487.20 qps: 38487.20 (r/w/o: 38487.20/0.00/0.00) lat (ms,95%): 0.95 err/s: 0.00 reconn/s: 0.00
    ```

4. Create a new terminal session and view the Pod changing status of the TiDB cluster by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    watch -n1 "kubectl -n ${namespace} get pod"
    ```

    The output is as follows:

    ```sh
    auto-scaling-demo-discovery-fbd95b679-f4cb9   1/1     Running   0          17m
    auto-scaling-demo-monitor-6857c58564-ftkp4    3/3     Running   0          17m
    auto-scaling-demo-pd-0                        1/1     Running   0          17m
    auto-scaling-demo-tidb-0                      2/2     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tidb-1                      2/2     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tikv-0                      1/1     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tikv-1                      1/1     Running   0          15m
    auto-scaling-demo-tikv-2                      1/1     Running   0          15m
    ```

    View the changing status of Pods and the TPS and QPS of sysbench. When new Pods are created in TiKV and TiDB, the TPS and QPS of sysbench increase significantly.

    After sysbench finishes the test, the newly created Pods in TiKV and TiDB disappear automatically.

5. Destroy the environment by running the following commands:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl delete tidbcluster auto-scaling-demo -n ${namespace}
    kubectl delete tidbmonitor auto-scaling-demo -n ${namespace}
    kubectl delete tidbclusterautoscaler auto-scaling-demo -n ${namespace}
    ```

## `TidbClusterAutoScaler` configurations

1. Set the auto-scaling interval.

    Compared with the stateless web service, a distributed database software is often sensitive to the instance auto-scaling. You need to make sure that there is a certain interval between each auto-scaling in case scaling operations are too frequent.
    You can set the interval (in seconds) between each auto-scaling by configuring `spec.tikv.scaleInIntervalSeconds` and `spec.tikv.ScaleOutIntervalSeconds` in TiTV. This also applies to TiDB.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: auto-scaler
    spec:
      tidb:
        scaleInIntervalSeconds: 500
        ScaleOutIntervalSeconds: 300
      tikv:
        scaleInIntervalSeconds: 500
        ScaleOutIntervalSeconds: 300
    ```

2. Set the maximum value and the minimum value.

    You can set the maximum value and the minimum value of each component in `TidbClusterAutoScaler` to control the scaling range of `TiDB` and `TiKV`, which is similar to [Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/).

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: auto-scaling-demo
    spec:
      tikv:
        minReplicas: 3
        maxReplicas: 4
      tidb:
        minReplicas: 2
        maxReplicas: 3
    ```

3. Set the CPU auto-scaling configurations.

    Currently, `TidbClusterAutoScaler` only supports CPU utilization based auto-scaling. The descriptive API is as follows. `averageUtilization` refers to the threshold of CPU utilization. If the utilization exceeds 80%, the auto-scaling is triggered.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: auto-scaling-demo
    spec:
      tikv:
        minReplicas: 3
        maxReplicas: 4
        metrics:
          - type: "Resource"
            resource:
              name: "cpu"
              target:
                type: "Utilization"
                averageUtilization: 80
    ```

4. Set the time window configurations.

    The CPU utilization based auto-scaling allows `TidbClusterAutoScaler` to get the CPU metrics of `TiDB` and `TiKV` from the specified monitoring system. You can specify the time window of metrics collection.

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbClusterAutoScaler
    metadata:
      name: basic
      tidb:
        metricsTimeDuration: "1m"
        metrics:
          - type: "Resource"
            resource:
              name: "cpu"
              target:
                type: "Utilization"
                averageUtilization: 60
    ```
