en/tidb-operator-overview.md, before:

---
title: TiDB Operator Overview
summary: Learn the overview of TiDB Operator.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Operator Overview

[TiDB Operator](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator) is an automatic operation system for TiDB clusters in Kubernetes. It provides a full management life-cycle for TiDB including deployment, upgrades, scaling, backup, fail-over, and configuration changes. With TiDB Operator, TiDB can run seamlessly in the Kubernetes clusters deployed on a public or private cloud.

> **Note:**
>
> You can only deploy one TiDB Operator in a Kubernetes cluster.

The corresponding relationship between TiDB Operator and TiDB versions is as follows:

| TiDB Operator version | Compatible TiDB versions |
|:---|:---|
| v1.0 | v2.1, v3.0 |
| v1.1 | v3.0, v3.1, v4.0 |
| dev | v3.0, v3.1, v4.0, dev |

## TiDB Operator architecture

![TiDB Operator Overview](/media/tidb-operator-overview-1.1.png)

`TidbCluster`, `TidbMonitor`, `TidbInitializer`, `Backup`, `Restore`, `BackupSchedule`, and `TidbClusterAutoScaler` are custom resources defined by CRD (`CustomResourceDefinition`).

* `TidbCluster` describes the desired state of the TiDB cluster.
* `TidbMonitor` describes the monitoring components of the TiDB cluster.
* `TidbInitializer` describes the desired initialization Job of the TiDB cluster.
* `Backup` describes the desired backup of the TiDB cluster.
* `Restore` describes the desired restoration of the TiDB cluster.
* `BackupSchedule` describes the scheduled backup of the TiDB cluster.
* `TidbClusterAutoScaler` describes the automatic scaling of the TiDB cluster.

The following components are responsible for the orchestration and scheduling logic in a TiDB cluster:

* `tidb-controller-manager` is a set of custom controllers in Kubernetes. These controllers constantly compare the desired state recorded in the `TidbCluster` object with the actual state of the TiDB cluster. They adjust the resources in Kubernetes to drive the TiDB cluster to meet the desired state and complete the corresponding control logic according to other CRs;
* `tidb-scheduler` is a Kubernetes scheduler extension that injects the TiDB specific scheduling policies to the Kubernetes scheduler;
* `tidb-admission-webhook` is a dynamic admission controller in Kubernetes, which completes the modification, verification, operation and maintenance of Pod, StatefulSet and other related resources.

In addition, TiDB Operator also provides `tkctl`, the command-line interface for TiDB clusters in Kubernetes. It is used for cluster operations and troubleshooting cluster issues.

![TiDB Operator Control Flow](/media/tidb-operator-control-flow-1.1.png)

The diagram above is the analysis of the control flow of TiDB Operator. Starting from TiDB Operator v1.1, the TiDB cluster, monitoring, initialization, backup, and other components are deployed and managed using CR. The overall control flow is described as follows:

1. The user creates a `TidbCluster` object and other CR objects through kubectl, such as `TidbMonitor`;
2. TiDB Operator watches `TidbCluster` and other related objects, and constantly adjust the `StatefulSet`, `Deployment`, `Service`, and other objects of PD, TiKV, TiDB, Monitor or other components based on the actual state of the cluster;
3. Kubernetes' native controllers create, update, or delete the corresponding `Pod` based on objects such as `StatefulSet`, `Deployment`, and `Job`;
4. In the `Pod` declaration of PD, TiKV, and TiDB, the `tidb-scheduler` scheduler is specified. `tidb-scheduler` applies the specific scheduling logic of TiDB when scheduling the corresponding `Pod`.

Based on the above declarative control flow, TiDB Operator automatically performs health check and fault recovery for the cluster nodes. You can easily modify the `TidbCluster` object declaration to perform operations such as deployment, upgrade and scaling.

## Manage TiDB clusters using TiDB Operator

TiDB Operator provides several ways to deploy TiDB clusters in Kubernetes:

+ For test environment:

    - [kind](deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-kind.md): Deploy TiDB clusters in local Kubernetes using kind
    - [Minikube](deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-minikube.md): Deploy TiDB clusters in a local Minikube environment using TiDB Operator
    - [GKE](deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-gke.md): Deploy TiDB clusters on GKE using TiDB Operator

+ For production environment:

    + On public cloud:
        - [Deploy TiDB on AWS EKS](deploy-on-aws-eks.md)
        - [Deploy TiDB on GCP GKE (beta)](deploy-on-gcp-gke.md)
        - [Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud ACK](deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md)

    - In an existing Kubernetes cluster:

        First install TiDB Operator in a Kubernetes cluster according to [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](deploy-tidb-operator.md), then deploy your TiDB clusters according to [Deploy TiDB in General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md).

        You also need to adjust the configuration of the Kubernetes cluster based on [Prerequisites for TiDB in Kubernetes](prerequisites.md) and configure the local PV for your Kubernetes cluster to achieve low latency of local storage for TiKV according to [Local PV Configuration](configure-storage-class.md#local-pv-configuration).

Before deploying TiDB on any of the above two environments, you can always refer to [TiDB Cluster Configuration Document](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md) to customize TiDB configurations.

After the deployment is complete, see the following documents to use, operate, and maintain TiDB clusters in Kubernetes:

+ [Access the TiDB Cluster](access-tidb.md)
+ [Scale TiDB Cluster](scale-a-tidb-cluster.md)
+ [Upgrade TiDB Cluster](upgrade-a-tidb-cluster.md#upgrade-the-version-of-tidb-cluster)
+ [Change the Configuration of TiDB Cluster](upgrade-a-tidb-cluster.md#change-the-configuration-of-tidb-cluster)
+ [Back up a TiDB Cluster](backup-to-aws-s3-using-br.md)
+ [Restore a TiDB Cluster](restore-from-aws-s3-using-br.md)
+ [Automatic Failover](use-auto-failover.md)
+ [Monitor a TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md)
+ [Collect TiDB Logs in Kubernetes](collect-tidb-logs.md)
+ [Maintain Kubernetes Nodes that Hold the TiDB Cluster](maintain-a-kubernetes-node.md)

When a problem occurs and the cluster needs diagnosis, you can:

+ See [TiDB FAQs in Kubernetes](faq.md) for any available solution;
+ See [Troubleshoot TiDB in Kubernetes](troubleshoot.md) to shoot troubles.

TiDB in Kubernetes provides a dedicated command-line tool `tkctl` for cluster management and auxiliary diagnostics. Meanwhile, some of TiDB's tools are used differently in Kubernetes. You can:

+ Use `tkctl` according to [`tkctl` Guide](use-tkctl.md );
+ See [Tools in Kubernetes](tidb-toolkit.md) to understand how TiDB tools are used in Kubernetes.

Finally, when a new version of TiDB Operator is released, you can refer to [Upgrade TiDB Operator](upgrade-tidb-operator.md) to upgrade to the latest version.

Commit message:

Reorganize Get Started (#362)
* First commit of cleaned-up Get Started section

* Fixed formatting

* Fixes to Get Started and GKE tutorial

* Fixes to GKE tutorial

* Fixes to GKE tutorial

* Fixes to Get Started

* Added Grafana information and fixed some other Get Started items

* Fix TOC

* Update en/deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-gke.md

Co-authored-by: DanielZhangQD <36026334+DanielZhangQD@users.noreply.github.com>

* Revert "Update en/deploy-tidb-from-kubernetes-gke.md"

I accidentally applied this commit using the web interface.

This reverts commit 5bc072959a269726dfe5c7ff780608ce2617ed92.

* Update en/get-started.md

Co-authored-by: DanielZhangQD <36026334+DanielZhangQD@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update en/get-started.md

Co-authored-by: DanielZhangQD <36026334+DanielZhangQD@users.noreply.github.com>

* Change order of ops for tidb-operator install. Change wording and org of GKE tutorial.

* Fixed broken links

* Fixed markdown lint complaints

* Added an Upgrade section

* Added note about MySQL 8.0 client default-auth plugin.

* Fix md lint

* Fix md formatting

* Added note to kill kubectl port-forwarding

Co-authored-by: DanielZhangQD <36026334+DanielZhangQD@users.noreply.github.com>

en/tidb-operator-overview.md, after:

---
title: TiDB Operator Overview
summary: Learn the overview of TiDB Operator.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Operator Overview

[TiDB Operator](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator) is an automatic operation system for TiDB clusters in Kubernetes. It provides a full management life-cycle for TiDB including deployment, upgrades, scaling, backup, fail-over, and configuration changes. With TiDB Operator, TiDB can run seamlessly in the Kubernetes clusters deployed on a public or private cloud.

> **Note:**
>
> You can only deploy one TiDB Operator in a Kubernetes cluster.

The corresponding relationship between TiDB Operator and TiDB versions is as follows:

| TiDB Operator version | Compatible TiDB versions |
|:---|:---|
| v1.0 | v2.1, v3.0 |
| v1.1 | v3.0, v3.1, v4.0 |
| dev | v3.0, v3.1, v4.0, dev |

## TiDB Operator architecture

![TiDB Operator Overview](/media/tidb-operator-overview-1.1.png)

`TidbCluster`, `TidbMonitor`, `TidbInitializer`, `Backup`, `Restore`, `BackupSchedule`, and `TidbClusterAutoScaler` are custom resources defined by CRD (`CustomResourceDefinition`).

* `TidbCluster` describes the desired state of the TiDB cluster.
* `TidbMonitor` describes the monitoring components of the TiDB cluster.
* `TidbInitializer` describes the desired initialization Job of the TiDB cluster.
* `Backup` describes the desired backup of the TiDB cluster.
* `Restore` describes the desired restoration of the TiDB cluster.
* `BackupSchedule` describes the scheduled backup of the TiDB cluster.
* `TidbClusterAutoScaler` describes the automatic scaling of the TiDB cluster.

The following components are responsible for the orchestration and scheduling logic in a TiDB cluster:

* `tidb-controller-manager` is a set of custom controllers in Kubernetes. These controllers constantly compare the desired state recorded in the `TidbCluster` object with the actual state of the TiDB cluster. They adjust the resources in Kubernetes to drive the TiDB cluster to meet the desired state and complete the corresponding control logic according to other CRs;
* `tidb-scheduler` is a Kubernetes scheduler extension that injects the TiDB specific scheduling policies to the Kubernetes scheduler;
* `tidb-admission-webhook` is a dynamic admission controller in Kubernetes, which completes the modification, verification, operation and maintenance of Pod, StatefulSet and other related resources.

In addition, TiDB Operator also provides `tkctl`, the command-line interface for TiDB clusters in Kubernetes. It is used for cluster operations and troubleshooting cluster issues.

![TiDB Operator Control Flow](/media/tidb-operator-control-flow-1.1.png)

The diagram above is the analysis of the control flow of TiDB Operator. Starting from TiDB Operator v1.1, the TiDB cluster, monitoring, initialization, backup, and other components are deployed and managed using CR. The overall control flow is described as follows:

1. The user creates a `TidbCluster` object and other CR objects through kubectl, such as `TidbMonitor`;
2. TiDB Operator watches `TidbCluster` and other related objects, and constantly adjust the `StatefulSet`, `Deployment`, `Service`, and other objects of PD, TiKV, TiDB, Monitor or other components based on the actual state of the cluster;
3. Kubernetes' native controllers create, update, or delete the corresponding `Pod` based on objects such as `StatefulSet`, `Deployment`, and `Job`;
4. In the `Pod` declaration of PD, TiKV, and TiDB, the `tidb-scheduler` scheduler is specified. `tidb-scheduler` applies the specific scheduling logic of TiDB when scheduling the corresponding `Pod`.

Based on the above declarative control flow, TiDB Operator automatically performs health check and fault recovery for the cluster nodes. You can easily modify the `TidbCluster` object declaration to perform operations such as deployment, upgrade and scaling.

## Manage TiDB clusters using TiDB Operator

TiDB Operator provides several ways to deploy TiDB clusters in Kubernetes:

+ For test environment:

    - [Get Started](get-started.md) using kind, Minikube, or the Google Cloud Shell

+ For production environment:

    + On public cloud:
        - [Deploy TiDB on AWS EKS](deploy-on-aws-eks.md)
        - [Deploy TiDB on GCP GKE (beta)](deploy-on-gcp-gke.md)
        - [Deploy TiDB on Alibaba Cloud ACK](deploy-on-alibaba-cloud.md)

    - In an existing Kubernetes cluster:

        First install TiDB Operator in a Kubernetes cluster according to [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](deploy-tidb-operator.md), then deploy your TiDB clusters according to [Deploy TiDB in General Kubernetes](deploy-on-general-kubernetes.md).

        You also need to adjust the configuration of the Kubernetes cluster based on [Prerequisites for TiDB in Kubernetes](prerequisites.md) and configure the local PV for your Kubernetes cluster to achieve low latency of local storage for TiKV according to [Local PV Configuration](configure-storage-class.md#local-pv-configuration).

Before deploying TiDB on any of the above two environments, you can always refer to [TiDB Cluster Configuration Document](configure-a-tidb-cluster.md) to customize TiDB configurations.

After the deployment is complete, see the following documents to use, operate, and maintain TiDB clusters in Kubernetes:

+ [Access the TiDB Cluster](access-tidb.md)
+ [Scale TiDB Cluster](scale-a-tidb-cluster.md)
+ [Upgrade TiDB Cluster](upgrade-a-tidb-cluster.md#upgrade-the-version-of-tidb-cluster)
+ [Change the Configuration of TiDB Cluster](upgrade-a-tidb-cluster.md#change-the-configuration-of-tidb-cluster)
+ [Back up a TiDB Cluster](backup-to-aws-s3-using-br.md)
+ [Restore a TiDB Cluster](restore-from-aws-s3-using-br.md)
+ [Automatic Failover](use-auto-failover.md)
+ [Monitor a TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes](monitor-a-tidb-cluster.md)
+ [Collect TiDB Logs in Kubernetes](collect-tidb-logs.md)
+ [Maintain Kubernetes Nodes that Hold the TiDB Cluster](maintain-a-kubernetes-node.md)

When a problem occurs and the cluster needs diagnosis, you can:

+ See [TiDB FAQs in Kubernetes](faq.md) for any available solution;
+ See [Troubleshoot TiDB in Kubernetes](troubleshoot.md) to shoot troubles.

TiDB in Kubernetes provides a dedicated command-line tool `tkctl` for cluster management and auxiliary diagnostics. Meanwhile, some of TiDB's tools are used differently in Kubernetes. You can:

+ Use `tkctl` according to [`tkctl` Guide](use-tkctl.md );
+ See [Tools in Kubernetes](tidb-toolkit.md) to understand how TiDB tools are used in Kubernetes.

Finally, when a new version of TiDB Operator is released, you can refer to [Upgrade TiDB Operator](upgrade-tidb-operator.md) to upgrade to the latest version.
